Updates to match 2.2 eBook Version (#10174)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/modern-web-apps-azure-architecture/test-asp-net-core-mvc-apps.md

> *"If you don't like unit testing your product, most likely your customers won't like to test it, either."*
 > \_- Anonymous-

> Software of any complexity can fail in unexpected ways in response to changes. Thus, testing after making changes is required for all but the most trivial (or least critical) applications. Manual testing is the slowest, least reliable, most expensive way to test software. Unfortunately, if applications are not designed to be testable, it can be the only means available. Applications written following the architectural principles laid out in [chapter 4](architecture-principles.md) should be unit testable, and ASP.NET Core applications support automated integration and functional testing as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software of any complexity can fail in unexpected ways in response to changes. Thus, testing after making changes is required for all but the most trivial (or least critical) applications. Manual testing is the slowest, least reliable, most expensive way to test software. Unfortunately, if applications aren't designed to be testable, it can be the only means available. Applications written following the architectural principles laid out in [chapter 4](architectural-principles.md) should be unit testable, and ASP.NET Core applications support automated integration and functional testing as well.
```

In most cases, you’ll want to use global exception handlers in your controllers, so the amount of logic in them should be minimal and probably not worth unit testing. You should do most of your testing of controller actions using functional tests and the `TestServer` class described below.

## Integration testing ASP.NET Core apps

Most of the integration tests in your ASP.NET Core apps should be testing services and other implementation types defined in your Infrastructure project. The best way to test that your ASP.NET Core MVC project is behaving correctly is with functional tests that run against your app running in a test host. An example of an integration test of a data access class is shown in the Integration Testing section earlier in this chapter.

## Functional testing ASP.NET Core apps

> For ASP.NET Core applications, the TestServer class makes functional tests fairly easy to write. You configure a TestServer using a WebHostBuilder directly (just as you normally do for your application), or with the WebApplicationFactory type (available since version 2.1). You should try match your test host to your production host as closely as possible, so your tests will exercise behavior similar to what the app will do in production. The WebApplicationFactory class is helpful for configuring the TestServer's ContentRoot, which is used by ASP.NET Core to locate static resource like Views.

Reviewer: When referring to APIs, we typically link to them using an xref link such as `<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer>`. But if not using the xref link, I'd use backticks to block those terms for localization.

```suggestion
For ASP.NET Core applications, the `TestServer` class makes functional tests fairly easy to write. You configure a `TestServer` using a `WebHostBuilder` directly (as you normally do for your application), or with the `WebApplicationFactory` type (available since version 2.1). You should try to match your test host to your production host as closely as possible, so your tests will exercise behavior similar to what the app will do in production. The `WebApplicationFactory` class is helpful for configuring the TestServer's ContentRoot, which is used by ASP.NET Core to locate static resource like Views.
```

            var stringResponse = await response.Content.ReadAsStringAsync();

            // Assert
            Assert.Contains(".NET Bot Black Sweatshirt", stringResponse);
        }
    }
}
```

> This functional test exercises the full ASP.NET Core MVC / Razor Pages application stack, including all middleware, filters, binders, etc. that may be in place. It verifies that a given route ("/") returns the expected success status code and HTML output. It does so without setting up a real web server, and so avoids much of the brittleness that using a real web server for testing can experience (for example, problems with firewall settings). Functional tests that run against TestServer are usually slower than integration and unit tests, but are much faster than tests that would run over the network to a test web server. You should use functional tests to ensure your application's front-end stack is working as expected. These tests are especially useful when you find duplication in your controllers or pages and you address the duplication by adding filters. Ideally, this refactoring will not change the behavior of the application, and a suite of functional tests will verify this is the case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functional test exercises the full ASP.NET Core MVC / Razor Pages application stack, including all middleware, filters, binders, etc. that may be in place. It verifies that a given route ("/") returns the expected success status code and HTML output. It does so without setting up a real web server, and so avoids much of the brittleness that using a real web server for testing can experience (for example, problems with firewall settings). Functional tests that run against TestServer are usually slower than integration and unit tests, but are much faster than tests that would run over the network to a test web server. You should use functional tests to ensure your application's front-end stack is working as expected. These tests are especially useful when you find duplication in your controllers or pages and you address the duplication by adding filters. Ideally, this refactoring won't change the behavior of the application, and a suite of functional tests will verify this is the case.
```
